We previously covered open source tools for
data science. Now, let’s look at the commercial options
you’ll find in many enterprise projects. Let’s revisit our overview of different
tool categories. In data management, most of an enterprise’s
relevant data is stored in an Oracle Database, Microsoft SQL Server, or
IBM Db2. Although open source databases are gaining
popularity, those three data management products are still considered the industry-standard. They won’t disappear in the near future. It’s not just about functionality. Data is at the heart of every organization,
and the availability of commercial supports plays a major role. Commercial supports are delivered directly
from software vendors, influential partners, and support networks. When we focus on commercial data integration
tools, we’re talking about “extract, transform, and load,” or “ETL” tools. According to a Gartner Magic Quadrant, Informatica
Powercenter and IBM InfoSphere DataStage are the leaders, followed by products from SAP,
Oracle, SAS, Talend, and Microsoft. These tools support design and deployment
of ETL data-processing pipelines through a graphical interface. They also provide connectors to most of the
commercial and open source target information systems. Finally, Watson Studio Desktop includes a
component called Data Refinery, which enables the defining and execution of data integration
processes in a spreadsheet style. In the commercial environment, data visualizations
are utilizing business intelligence, or “BI”, tools. Their main focus is to create visually attractive
and easy-to-understand reports and live dashboards. The most prominent commercial examples are:
Tableau, Microsoft Power BI, and IBM Cognos Analytics. Another type of visualization targets data
scientists rather than regular users. A sample problem might be “How can different
columns in a table relate to each other?” This type of functionality is contained in
Watson Studio Desktop. If you want to build a machine learning model
using a commercial tool, you should consider using a data mining product. The most prominent of these types of products
are: SPSS Modeler and SAS Enterprise Miner. In addition, A version of SPSS Modeler is
also available in Watson Studio Desktop, based on the cloud version of the tool. We’ll talk more about cloud-based tools
in the next video. In commercial software, model deployment is
tightly integrated in the model building process. This diagram shows an example of the SPSS
Collaboration and Deployment Services which are used to deploy any type of asset created
by the SPSS software tools suite. Other vendors use the same type of process. Commercial software can also export models
in an open format. For example, SPSS Modeler supports the exporting
of models as Predictive Model Markup Language, or PMML, which can be read by many other commercial
and open software packages. Model monitoring is a new discipline and there
are currently no relevant commercial tools available. As a result, open source is the first choice. The same is true for code asset management. Open source with Git and GitHub is the effective
standard. Data asset management, often called data governance
or data lineage, is a crucial part of enterprise grade data science. Data must be versioned and annotated using
metadata. Vendors, including Informatica Enterprise
Data Governance and IBM, provide tools for these specific tasks. The IBM InfoSphere Information Governance
Catalog covers functions like data dictionary, which facilitates discovery of data assets. Each data asset is assigned to a data steward
-- the data owner. The data owner is responsible for that data
asset and can be contacted. Data lineage is also covered; this enables
a user to track back through the transformation steps followed in creating the data assets. The data lineage also includes a reference
to the actual source data. Rules and policies can be added to reflect
complex regulatory and business requirements for data privacy and retention. Watson Studio is a fully integrated development
environment for data scientists. It’s usually consumed through the cloud,
and we’ll cover more about it in a later lesson. There is also a desktop version available. Watson Studio Desktop combines Jupyter Notebooks
with graphical tools to maximize data scientists’ performance. Watson Studio, together with Watson Open Scale,
is a fully integrated tool covering the full data science life cycle and all the tasks
we’ve discussed previously. We’ll talk more about both in the next lesson. but just keep in mind that they can be deployed
in a local data center on top of Kubernetes or RedHat OpenShift. Another example of a fully integrated commercial
tool is H2O Driverless AI, which covers the complete data science life cycle. In this lesson, you’ve learned how most
common data science tasks are supported by commercial tools. In the next video, we’ll discover data science
tools that are available exclusively on the cloud.